README.md, before:

<!-- README START -->
<p align="center">
  <img src=".github/assets/brandmark-addon-name-banner-lime-on-blk.png" alt="Storybook Text Search banner" width="100%" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40tchwrks%2Fstorybook-text-search" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/tchwrks/storybook-text-search" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/unpacked-size/%40tchwrks%2Fstorybook-text-search" />
</p>

***
<br/>

`@tchwrks/storybook-text-search` is a Storybook addon that enables full-text search across MDX content:

- 🔍 Builds an MDX/documentation index at startup (Stories / autodocs parsing on the roadmap)
- 💡 Integrates a "search bar" toolbar trigger and modern search modal into the Storybook manager UI
- ♻️ Automatically rebuilds index on hot reload
- 🎹 100% keyboard accessible
- ⚙️ Works with both Vite and Webpack Storybook builders
- ✍️ Written in *(mostly)* TypeScript using the official [Addon Kit](https://github.com/storybookjs/addon-kit)
- 🐭 Sub 200KB index for >20 MDX files
- 🏎️ Fast local search. No server needed. No 3-5 business days for results

<br/>

> [!note]
> To the two devs who stumbled across this addon before I even announced it and starred the repo—you know who you are—thank you. Ya'll are the real MVPs and the fire under my a** to get this `v1.0.0`, Storybook 9 migration done.
>
> In the meantime,`v0.0.8` is live. The main change is support for a `pathPrefix` field in the `config.mjs`. This now ensures the addon works when deployed to sub paths like with Github pages w/o a custom domain, where your repo name is treated as the "slug" prefixing all routes.

>[!Warning] 
> *This addon has not performed the Storybook 9.0 migrations yet. A new major version supporting Storybook 9.0 will be released soon (development in progress). This addon also **does not** currently support the React Native framework. [Limited functionality](#note-on-framework-compatibility) for non-react frameworks*

## Table of Contents
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - ["Trust the process"](#trust-the-process)
    - ["I'll do it myself"](#ill-do-it-myself)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Note on Framework Compatibility](#note-on-framework-compatibility)
- [Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration)
  - [Full `config.mjs` Options](#full-configmjs-options)
    - [Extraction Rule Type](#extraction-rule-type)
  - [Utilizing `config.jsxTextMap`](#utilizing-configjsxtextmap)
- [About](#about)
    - [Built by Techworks Studio](#built-by-techworks-studio)
    - [Other goodies from Techworks](#other-goodies-from-techworks)
    - [Connect](#connect)
- [License](#license)
- [Roadmap](#roadmap)

## Getting Started

### Installation
First, install the addon:

```bash
yarn add -D @tchwrks/storybook-text-search
# or
npm install --save-dev @tchwrks/storybook-text-search

# Optionally, to install and register the addon in .storybook/main#addons
yarn dlx storybook add @tchwrks/storybook-text-search
# or
npx storybook add @tchwrks/storybook-text-search
```


### Configuration

#### "Trust the process"
This addon ships with an initialization script to get you going:

```bash
npx storybook-text-search-init
```
This script will:
- Register the addon and its artifacts in `.storybook/main.{ts,js}` 
- Generate `.storybook-text-search` which houses the config and artifact(s)
- Read your `.storybook/main.{ts,js}` to "copy" over the input paths
- Ask you if you're deploying your Storybook to a subpath (e.g. GitHub Pages w/o a custom domain) before generating a default `.storybook-text-search/config.js` with sensible defaults
- Generate an initial index

For most setups, this is all you need to get going. Just start Storybook like usual and enjoy!

#### "I'll do it myself"

<details>
<br/>
<summary>Fine. Since you want to be a grown-up, complete the following:</summary>

1. Create the tool / addon directory, `.storybook-text-search/` at your project's root (or at the same level as your `.storybook/` 
   
2. Create a `.storybook-text-search/config.mjs`:
    ```javascript
    // Custom extractors. See `advanced configuration` for more

    import {
      tableExtractor,
      colorPaletteExtractor,
      apiEndpointExtractor,
      typeScaleExtractor
    } from "./custom-extractors/index.js";

    const config = {
      // inputPaths ≈ stories from .storybook/main.{ts,js}. Glob ext should be written like example
      // ...for single dir, still place inside an array
      inputPaths: ["../src/stories/**/*.mdx", "../src/**/*.stories.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}"],
      // Recursion level/component depth for jsx parsing
      maxJsxDepth: 5,
      // Props to parse for fallback jsx parse (opt for jsxTextMap entry when possible)
      jsxPropAllowList: ['alt', 'title', 'aria-label', 'placeholder', 'label', 'value', 'children'],
    };

    export default config;
    ```  
    > Customize this as needed to index the right files and extract meaningful metadata for your docs. See [advanced configuration](#advanced-configuration) for more
    
3. Create `.storybook-text-search/artifacts` directory
   
4. Regardless of whether you used `storybook add` for install, make sure you register the addon + artifacts dir from the previous step in your `.storybook/main.{ts,js}`:
    ```typescript
    // .storybook/main.ts (React + Vite)

    import type { StorybookConfig } from "@storybook/react-vite";
    const config: StorybookConfig = {
      stories: ["../src/stories/**/*.mdx", "../src/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)"],
      addons: [
        "@storybook/addon-links",
        "@storybook/addon-essentials",
        "@storybook/addon-interactions",
        // Register addon. Order determines toolbar placement (last = right)
        // ...running `storybook add` automatically registers addon
        "@tchwrks/storybook-text-search"
      ],
      // Register artifacts dir. Order does not matter
      staticDirs: ['../.storybook-text-search/artifacts', '../src/assets'],
      framework: {
        name: "@storybook/react-vite",
        options: {},
      },
      docs: {
        autodocs: "tag",
      },
      core: {
        builder: '@storybook/builder-vite',
      }
    };
    
    export default config;
   ```

5. Finally, run `npx storybook-text-search-build` or start your Storybook (index will build during startup)
</details>

## Usage

Usage of this addon is pretty straightforward once you set it up. Just add `*.mdx` docs into the paths you defined in your `.storybook-text-search/config.mjs` and they'll be automatically indexed on Storybook startup and hot reload.

When Storybook is running, you can open the search modal by clicking the trigger in the toolbar labeled **"Find MDX Text"** or by using the keyboard shortcut `Shift + Cmd + K`. Once open, you can use your mouse/trackpad or the following keyboard shortcuts to navigate:

| Shortcut           | Action                   |
| ------------------ | ------------------------ |
| `Shift + Cmd + K`  | Open search modal        |
| `↑` / `↓` or `Tab` | Navigate between results |
| `Enter`            | Jump to selected result  |
| `Esc`              | Close the search modal   |

You can adjust the positioning of the search modal trigger / search bar by adjusting where you place `@tchwrks/storybook-text-search` in your `.storybook/main` addon array. Beginning of array = leftmost toolbar spot, end of array = rightmost toolbar spot.

While the addon can pick up on raw markdown and parse basic text rendered in JSX as children or props by leveraging just the `maxJsxDepth` and `jsxPropsAllowList` fields in the `config.mjs`, you may find that it does not fully parse or normalize the text. In which case, please consider leveraging the `jsxTextMap` field in the `config.mjs`. It allows you to map out extraction behavior for JSX on a per-component basis. See [Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration) for further documentation on this.

If for whatever reason you would like to re-run the initialization script or manually trigger an index rebuild, you can run either of the following scripts:

```bash
npx storybook-search-init  # addon initialization

npx storybook-search-build-index  # build index
```
>*I'm hoping to release a hosted Storybook with expanded documentation and a live demo with the 1.0.0 release for SB9 (@noah)*

### Note on Framework Compatibility

This addon works with all Storybook frameworks that support MDX, including React, Vue, and Angular.

However, advanced text extraction from JSX components (like parsing strings from nested props or child elements) is currently optimized for React-style JSX. If you're using Vue or Angular, the addon will still index standard Markdown and inline HTML correctly — just avoid framework-specific bindings or dynamic components in `.mdx` files.

> [!tip]
> For the best results in Vue or Angular or other non-react frameworks, write MDX with plain HTML/Markdown content. Full JSX-style extraction for other frameworks may be added in the future. If you are interested in accelerating that timeline, [reach out](#connect).

## Advanced Configuration

As mentioned in the [Usage](#usage) section, this addon does a pretty decent job of parsing text for *most* basic `*.mdx` files. However, MDX files can contain JSX, and that JSX might render text at any arbitrary depth and through non-string props. That's where the `jsxTextMap` field in the `.storybook-text-search/config.mjs` comes into play.


This is where things get lengthy. You've been warned . . .

### Full `config.mjs` Options

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----  | ---- | ---- |
| `inputPaths` | `string[]` | MDX and story globs. Use `.{.foo, .bar}` for glob extensions |
| `maxJsxDepth` | `number` | Recursion depth for parsing JSX |
| `jsxPropsAllowList` | `string[]` | JSX props to extract using default extraction logic |
| `jsxTextMap` | `Record<string, ExtractionRule>` | Per-component mapping

#### Extraction Rule Type
```typescript
export type ExtractionRule =
  | string[] // prop name shorthand
  | {
    props?: string[]; // prop name shorthand
    children?: boolean; // has children
    nestedTextSelectors?: string[]; // Nested component / element names
  }
  | ((node: any) => string[]); // custom extraction function

```
<br/>

<details>
<summary>Click to view <code>jsxTextMap</code> examples and advanced use cases</summary>

### Utilizing `config.jsxTextMap`

A configuration file utilizing custom extraction logic might look like the following

```javascript
// .storybook-text-search/config.mjs
import {
  tableExtractor,
} from './custom-extractors/index.js';

const config = {
  // Optional - slug to prefix all paths with during indexing. Essential for deployments to subdomains. No slashes. As it appears in the address bar.
  // ...(e.g. github pages where paths are prefixes with the repo name. 
  // ...For example, tchrwks.github.io/storybook-text-search -> pathPrefix: 'storybook-text-search')
  pathPrefix: undefined,
  // inputPaths ≈ stories from .storybook/main.{ts,js}. Glob ext should be written like example
  // ...for single dir, still place inside an array
  inputPaths: ['../src/stories/**/*.mdx', '../src/**/*.stories.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}'],
  // Recursion level/component depth for jsx parsing
  maxJsxDepth: 5,
  // Props to parse for fallback jsx parse (opt for jsxTextMap entry when possible)
  jsxPropAllowList: ['alt', 'title', 'aria-label', 'placeholder', 'label', 'value', 'children'],
  // Optional -> Custom / more explicit parsing
  jsxTextMap: {
    // Shorthand (similar to jsxPropAllowList, just scoped)
    Badge: ['callout'],
    // Example: <TextBlock>Text here</TextBlock>
    TextBlock: ['children'],
    // Useful for if you have a complex nesting of plain string props
    // Example: <Callout message="..." >Text</Callout>
    Callout: {
      props: ['message'],
        children: true,
        nestedTextSelectors: ['BodyText'],
    },
    // For when sh*t gets hairy
    Table: {
      extractor: tableExtractor // (node) => string[]
    },
};

export default config;
```

When defining `ExtractionRule` functions (Table from the code above), it is recommended you write them as plain `*.js` files. ESM vs CJS shouldn't make a difference--but you likely won't need extra deps anyway. 

Given an a MDX file that contains a `Table` component that looks like the following:

```typescript
import React from "react";

type Column<T> = {
    key: keyof T;
    header: string;
    render?: (value: T[keyof T], row: T) => React.ReactNode;
};

type Props<T> = {
    columns: Column<T>[];
    data: T[];
    className?: string;
};

export function Table<T extends Record<string, any>>({ columns, data, className }: Props<T>) {
    return (
        <table className={className} style={{ width: "100%", borderCollapse: "collapse" }}>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    {columns.map((col, i) => (
                        <th
                            key={i}
                            style={{ borderBottom: "1px solid #ddd", textAlign: "left", padding: "8px" }}
                        >
                            {col.header}
                        </th>
                    ))}
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                {data.map((row, rowIndex) => (
                    <tr key={rowIndex}>
                        {columns.map((col, colIndex) => (
                            <td
                                key={colIndex}
                                style={{ borderBottom: "1px solid #f0f0f0", padding: "8px" }}
                            >
                                {col.render ? col.render(row[col.key], row) : row[col.key]}
                            </td>
                        ))}
                    </tr>
                ))}
            </tbody>
        </table>
    );
}
```

... a custom `ExtractionRule` function for that component might look like this:

```javascript
// .storybook-text-search/custom-extractors (or wherever you want to put it--knock yourself out)

export function tableExtractor(node) {
    const strings = [];

    const columnsAttr = node.attributes?.find(attr => attr.name === 'columns');
    const dataAttr = node.attributes?.find(attr => attr.name === 'data');

    const extractFromArrayExpression = (valueNode) => {
        if (valueNode?.type !== 'mdxJsxAttributeValueExpression' || typeof valueNode.value !== 'string') return [];

        try {
            const evalFunc = new Function(`return (${valueNode.value})`);
            const parsed = evalFunc();

            if (Array.isArray(parsed)) {
                return parsed;
            }
        } catch (err) {
            console.warn('⚠️ Failed to parse Table attribute value:', err);
        }

        return [];
    };

    const columns = extractFromArrayExpression(columnsAttr?.value);
    const data = extractFromArrayExpression(dataAttr?.value);

    for (const col of columns) {
        if (typeof col?.header === 'string') {
            strings.push(col.header);
        }
    }

    for (const row of data) {
        for (const key in row) {
            if (typeof row[key] === 'string') {
                strings.push(row[key]);
            }
        }
    }

    return strings;
}
```
</details>
  
<br/>

***Want to get back to where you were before? I got you***
- [Basic configuration setup](#ill-do-it-myself) 
- [Addon usage](#usage)

## About
####  Built by Techworks Studio
[Techworks Studio](https://techworks.studio) is a hybrid consultancy and R&D studio crafting tools and solutions that empower bold ideas, redefine workflows, and deliver meaningful user experiences

#### Other goodies from Techworks

- [tokenXtractor](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/1401554311953331143/tokenxtractor-by-techworks-studio) - Free Figma plugin for extracting local variables (tokens) into a more code-ready format. Control which collections get exported and how
- [Figma Plugin React Template (2024)](https://github.com/noahidavis/figma-plugin-react-2024) - TS template for creating Figma plugins with a React for the UI

#### Connect
This addon is built and maintained by [Noah Davis](https://noahidavis.com) of [Techworks Studio](https://techworks.studio)

- [Personal Portfolio](https://noahidavis.com)
- [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/noahidavis)
- [X/Twitter](https://x.com/noahidavis)

Have feedback, ideas, or a collaboration in mind? Reach out anytime

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

## Roadmap
- [x] (Work in progress) Storybook 9.0 migration + major bump
- [ ] Demo-embedded docs
- [ ] React: Parse stories + component definitions (for autodocs)
- [ ] Advanced searches (multi-keyword, boolean operations, etc)
- [x] (Work in progress / partial done) Expanded config

## Ready to stop playing Where's Wally with your Storybook docs?
```bash
yarn add -D @tchwrks/storybook-text-search
# or
npm i -D @tchwrks/storybook-text-search

npx storybook-search-init
```
*Yup. Up and running in just 2 commands . . .*

<!-- README END -->

Commit message:

release: 0.0.8 - added support for deploying to subpaths via pathPrefix in config.mjs

README.md, after:

<!-- README START -->
<p align="center">
  <img src=".github/assets/brandmark-addon-name-banner-lime-on-blk.png" alt="Storybook Text Search banner" width="100%" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40tchwrks%2Fstorybook-text-search" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/tchwrks/storybook-text-search" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/unpacked-size/%40tchwrks%2Fstorybook-text-search" />
</p>

***
<br/>

`@tchwrks/storybook-text-search` is a Storybook addon that enables full-text search across MDX content:

- 🔍 Builds an MDX/documentation index at startup (Stories / autodocs parsing on the roadmap)
- 💡 Integrates a "search bar" toolbar trigger and modern search modal into the Storybook manager UI
- ♻️ Automatically rebuilds index on hot reload
- 🎹 100% keyboard accessible
- ⚙️ Works with both Vite and Webpack Storybook builders
- ✍️ Written in *(mostly)* TypeScript using the official [Addon Kit](https://github.com/storybookjs/addon-kit)
- 🐭 Sub 200KB index for >20 MDX files
- 🏎️ Fast local search. No server needed. No 3-5 business days for results

<br/>

> [!note]
> To the two devs who stumbled across this addon before I even announced it and starred the repo—you know who you are—thank you. Ya'll are the real MVPs and the fire under my a** to get this `v1.0.0`, Storybook 9 migration done.
>
> In the meantime,`v0.0.8` is live. The main change is support for a `pathPrefix` field in the `config.mjs`. This now ensures the addon works when deployed to sub paths like with Github pages w/o a custom domain, where your repo name is treated as the "slug" prefixing all routes.

>[!Warning] 
> *This addon has not performed the Storybook 9.0 migrations yet. A new major version supporting Storybook 9.0 will be released soon (development in progress). This addon also **does not** currently support the React Native framework. [Limited functionality](#note-on-framework-compatibility) for non-react frameworks*

## Table of Contents
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - ["Trust the process"](#trust-the-process)
    - ["I'll do it myself"](#ill-do-it-myself)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Note on Framework Compatibility](#note-on-framework-compatibility)
- [Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration)
  - [Full `config.mjs` Options](#full-configmjs-options)
    - [Extraction Rule Type](#extraction-rule-type)
  - [Utilizing `config.jsxTextMap`](#utilizing-configjsxtextmap)
- [About](#about)
    - [Built by Techworks Studio](#built-by-techworks-studio)
    - [Other goodies from Techworks](#other-goodies-from-techworks)
    - [Connect](#connect)
- [License](#license)
- [Roadmap](#roadmap)

## Getting Started

### Installation
First, install the addon:

```bash
yarn add -D @tchwrks/storybook-text-search
# or
npm install --save-dev @tchwrks/storybook-text-search

# Optionally, to install and register the addon in .storybook/main#addons
yarn dlx storybook add @tchwrks/storybook-text-search
# or
npx storybook add @tchwrks/storybook-text-search
```


### Configuration

#### "Trust the process"
This addon ships with an initialization script to get you going:

```bash
npx storybook-text-search-init
```
This script will:
- Register the addon and its artifacts in `.storybook/main.{ts,js}` 
- Generate `.storybook-text-search` which houses the config and artifact(s)
- Read your `.storybook/main.{ts,js}` to "copy" over the input paths
- Ask you if you're deploying your Storybook to a subpath (e.g. GitHub Pages w/o a custom domain) before generating a default `.storybook-text-search/config.js` with sensible defaults
- Generate an initial index

For most setups, this is all you need to get going. Just start Storybook like usual and enjoy!

#### "I'll do it myself"

<details>
<br/>
<summary>Fine. Since you want to be a grown-up, complete the following:</summary>

1. Create the tool / addon directory, `.storybook-text-search/` at your project's root or at the same level as your `.storybook/` 
   
2. Create a `.storybook-text-search/config.mjs`:
    ```javascript
    // Custom extractors. See `advanced configuration` for more

    import {
      tableExtractor,
      colorPaletteExtractor,
      apiEndpointExtractor,
      typeScaleExtractor
    } from "./custom-extractors/index.js";

    const config = {
      // inputPaths ≈ stories from .storybook/main.{ts,js}. Glob ext should be written like example
      // ...for single dir, still place inside an array
      inputPaths: ["../src/stories/**/*.mdx", "../src/**/*.stories.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}"],
      // Recursion level/component depth for jsx parsing
      maxJsxDepth: 5,
      // Props to parse for fallback jsx parse (opt for jsxTextMap entry when possible)
      jsxPropAllowList: ['alt', 'title', 'aria-label', 'placeholder', 'label', 'value', 'children'],
    };

    export default config;
    ```  
    > Customize this as needed to index the right files and extract meaningful metadata for your docs. See [advanced configuration](#advanced-configuration) for more
    
3. Create `.storybook-text-search/artifacts` directory
   
4. Regardless of whether you used `storybook add` for install, make sure you register the addon + artifacts dir from the previous step in your `.storybook/main.{ts,js}`:
    ```typescript
    // .storybook/main.ts (React + Vite)

    import type { StorybookConfig } from "@storybook/react-vite";
    const config: StorybookConfig = {
      stories: ["../src/stories/**/*.mdx", "../src/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)"],
      addons: [
        "@storybook/addon-links",
        "@storybook/addon-essentials",
        "@storybook/addon-interactions",
        // Register addon. Order determines toolbar placement (last = right)
        // ...running `storybook add` automatically registers addon
        "@tchwrks/storybook-text-search"
      ],
      // Register artifacts dir. Order does not matter
      staticDirs: ['../.storybook-text-search/artifacts', '../src/assets'],
      framework: {
        name: "@storybook/react-vite",
        options: {},
      },
      docs: {
        autodocs: "tag",
      },
      core: {
        builder: '@storybook/builder-vite',
      }
    };
    
    export default config;
   ```

5. Finally, run `npx storybook-text-search-build` or start your Storybook (index will build during startup)
</details>

## Usage

Usage of this addon is pretty straightforward once you set it up. Just add `*.mdx` docs into the paths you defined in your `.storybook-text-search/config.mjs` and they'll be automatically indexed on Storybook startup and hot reload.

When Storybook is running, you can open the search modal by clicking the trigger in the toolbar labeled **"Find MDX Text"** or by using the keyboard shortcut `Shift + Cmd + K`. Once open, you can use your mouse/trackpad or the following keyboard shortcuts to navigate:

| Shortcut           | Action                   |
| ------------------ | ------------------------ |
| `Shift + Cmd + K`  | Open search modal        |
| `↑` / `↓` or `Tab` | Navigate between results |
| `Enter`            | Jump to selected result  |
| `Esc`              | Close the search modal   |

You can adjust the positioning of the search modal trigger / search bar by adjusting where you place `@tchwrks/storybook-text-search` in your `.storybook/main` addon array. Beginning of array = leftmost toolbar spot, end of array = rightmost toolbar spot.

While the addon can pick up on raw markdown and parse basic text rendered in JSX as children or props by leveraging just the `maxJsxDepth` and `jsxPropsAllowList` fields in the `config.mjs`, you may find that it does not fully parse or normalize the text. In which case, please consider leveraging the `jsxTextMap` field in the `config.mjs`. It allows you to map out extraction behavior for JSX on a per-component basis. See [Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration) for further documentation on this.

If for whatever reason you would like to re-run the initialization script or manually trigger an index rebuild, you can run either of the following scripts:

```bash
npx storybook-search-init  # addon initialization

npx storybook-search-build-index  # build index
```
>*I'm hoping to release a hosted Storybook with expanded documentation and a live demo with the 1.0.0 release for SB9 (@noah)*

### Note on Framework Compatibility

This addon works with all Storybook frameworks that support MDX, including React, Vue, and Angular.

However, advanced text extraction from JSX components (like parsing strings from nested props or child elements) is currently optimized for React-style JSX. If you're using Vue or Angular, the addon will still index standard Markdown and inline HTML correctly — just avoid framework-specific bindings or dynamic components in `.mdx` files.

> [!tip]
> For the best results in Vue or Angular or other non-react frameworks, write MDX with plain HTML/Markdown content. Full JSX-style extraction for other frameworks may be added in the future. If you are interested in accelerating that timeline, [reach out](#connect).

## Advanced Configuration

As mentioned in the [Usage](#usage) section, this addon does a pretty decent job of parsing text for *most* basic `*.mdx` files. However, MDX files can contain JSX, and that JSX might render text at any arbitrary depth and through non-string props. That's where the `jsxTextMap` field in the `.storybook-text-search/config.mjs` comes into play.


This is where things get lengthy. You've been warned . . .

### Full `config.mjs` Options

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----  | ---- | ---- |
| `inputPaths` | `string[]` | MDX and story globs. Use `.{.foo, .bar}` for glob extensions |
| `pathPrefix` | `string \| undefined` |  Slug to prefix all paths with during indexing. Essential for deployments to subpaths like GitHub Pages w/o a custom domain. Do not include slashes (e.g. `pathPrefix: "your-repo-name"`)
| `maxJsxDepth` | `number` | Recursion depth for parsing JSX |
| `jsxPropsAllowList` | `string[]` | JSX props to extract using default extraction logic |
| `jsxTextMap` | `Record<string, ExtractionRule>` | Per-component mapping

#### Extraction Rule Type
```typescript
export type ExtractionRule =
  | string[] // prop name shorthand
  | {
    props?: string[]; // prop name shorthand
    children?: boolean; // has children
    nestedTextSelectors?: string[]; // Nested component / element names
  }
  | ((node: any) => string[]); // custom extraction function

```
<br/>

<details>
<summary>Click to view <code>jsxTextMap</code> examples and advanced use cases</summary>

### Utilizing `config.jsxTextMap`

A configuration file utilizing custom extraction logic might look like the following

```javascript
// .storybook-text-search/config.mjs
import {
  tableExtractor,
} from './custom-extractors/index.js';

const config = {
  // Optional - slug to prefix all paths with during indexing. Essential for deployments to subdomains. No slashes. As it appears in the address bar.
  // ...(e.g. github pages where paths are prefixes with the repo name. 
  // ...For example, tchrwks.github.io/storybook-text-search -> pathPrefix: 'storybook-text-search')
  pathPrefix: undefined,
  // inputPaths ≈ stories from .storybook/main.{ts,js}. Glob ext should be written like example
  // ...for single dir, still place inside an array
  inputPaths: ['../src/stories/**/*.mdx', '../src/**/*.stories.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}'],
  // Recursion level/component depth for jsx parsing
  maxJsxDepth: 5,
  // Props to parse for fallback jsx parse (opt for jsxTextMap entry when possible)
  jsxPropAllowList: ['alt', 'title', 'aria-label', 'placeholder', 'label', 'value', 'children'],
  // Optional -> Custom / more explicit parsing
  jsxTextMap: {
    // Shorthand (similar to jsxPropAllowList, just scoped)
    Badge: ['callout'],
    // Example: <TextBlock>Text here</TextBlock>
    TextBlock: ['children'],
    // Useful for if you have a complex nesting of plain string props
    // Example: <Callout message="..." >Text</Callout>
    Callout: {
      props: ['message'],
        children: true,
        nestedTextSelectors: ['BodyText'],
    },
    // For when sh*t gets hairy
    Table: {
      extractor: tableExtractor // (node) => string[]
    },
};

export default config;
```

When defining `ExtractionRule` functions (Table from the code above), it is recommended you write them as plain `*.js` files. ESM vs CJS shouldn't make a difference--but you likely won't need extra deps anyway. 

Given an a MDX file that contains a `Table` component that looks like the following:

```typescript
import React from "react";

type Column<T> = {
    key: keyof T;
    header: string;
    render?: (value: T[keyof T], row: T) => React.ReactNode;
};

type Props<T> = {
    columns: Column<T>[];
    data: T[];
    className?: string;
};

export function Table<T extends Record<string, any>>({ columns, data, className }: Props<T>) {
    return (
        <table className={className} style={{ width: "100%", borderCollapse: "collapse" }}>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    {columns.map((col, i) => (
                        <th
                            key={i}
                            style={{ borderBottom: "1px solid #ddd", textAlign: "left", padding: "8px" }}
                        >
                            {col.header}
                        </th>
                    ))}
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                {data.map((row, rowIndex) => (
                    <tr key={rowIndex}>
                        {columns.map((col, colIndex) => (
                            <td
                                key={colIndex}
                                style={{ borderBottom: "1px solid #f0f0f0", padding: "8px" }}
                            >
                                {col.render ? col.render(row[col.key], row) : row[col.key]}
                            </td>
                        ))}
                    </tr>
                ))}
            </tbody>
        </table>
    );
}
```

... a custom `ExtractionRule` function for that component might look like this:

```javascript
// .storybook-text-search/custom-extractors (or wherever you want to put it--knock yourself out)

export function tableExtractor(node) {
    const strings = [];

    const columnsAttr = node.attributes?.find(attr => attr.name === 'columns');
    const dataAttr = node.attributes?.find(attr => attr.name === 'data');

    const extractFromArrayExpression = (valueNode) => {
        if (valueNode?.type !== 'mdxJsxAttributeValueExpression' || typeof valueNode.value !== 'string') return [];

        try {
            const evalFunc = new Function(`return (${valueNode.value})`);
            const parsed = evalFunc();

            if (Array.isArray(parsed)) {
                return parsed;
            }
        } catch (err) {
            console.warn('⚠️ Failed to parse Table attribute value:', err);
        }

        return [];
    };

    const columns = extractFromArrayExpression(columnsAttr?.value);
    const data = extractFromArrayExpression(dataAttr?.value);

    for (const col of columns) {
        if (typeof col?.header === 'string') {
            strings.push(col.header);
        }
    }

    for (const row of data) {
        for (const key in row) {
            if (typeof row[key] === 'string') {
                strings.push(row[key]);
            }
        }
    }

    return strings;
}
```
</details>
  
<br/>

***Want to get back to where you were before? I got you***
- [Basic configuration setup](#ill-do-it-myself) 
- [Addon usage](#usage)

## About
####  Built by Techworks Studio
[Techworks Studio](https://techworks.studio) is a hybrid consultancy and R&D studio crafting tools and solutions that empower bold ideas, redefine workflows, and deliver meaningful user experiences

#### Other goodies from Techworks

- [tokenXtractor](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/1401554311953331143/tokenxtractor-by-techworks-studio) - Free Figma plugin for extracting local variables (tokens) into a more code-ready format. Control which collections get exported and how
- [Figma Plugin React Template (2024)](https://github.com/noahidavis/figma-plugin-react-2024) - TS template for creating Figma plugins with a React for the UI

#### Connect
This addon is built and maintained by [Noah Davis](https://noahidavis.com) of [Techworks Studio](https://techworks.studio)

- [Personal Portfolio](https://noahidavis.com)
- [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/noahidavis)
- [X/Twitter](https://x.com/noahidavis)

Have feedback, ideas, or a collaboration in mind? Reach out anytime

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

## Roadmap
- [x] (Work in progress) Storybook 9.0 migration + major bump
- [ ] Demo-embedded docs
- [ ] React: Parse stories + component definitions (for autodocs)
- [ ] Advanced searches (multi-keyword, boolean operations, etc)
- [x] (Work in progress / partial done) Expanded config

## Ready to stop playing Where's Wally with your Storybook docs?
```bash
yarn add -D @tchwrks/storybook-text-search
# or
npm i -D @tchwrks/storybook-text-search

npx storybook-search-init
```
*Yup. Up and running in just 2 commands . . .*

<!-- README END -->
